high off there's this insane but Grady
and in this training I'm going to share
with you my experience as an author
uploading my book brilliance into
smashwords now I first learned about
smash words through Elaine Wilkes and
her product about how to easily get your
books into brick-and-mortar and online
bookstores now share more about Elaine
Wilks resource guide at the end of this
short video for those of you who don't
know
according to smashwords they're the
world's leading eBook publishing and
distribution platform for nd e-book
authors and publishers now I've been
told by a Smashwords for matter that
smashwords an Amazon Kindle are the two
resources that cover all current ebook
distribution channels now actually
smashwords can also distribute for
Kindle so they can do everything for you
so what's Smashwords gonna do for you
first of all you're gonna have to upload
your book into Smashwords via a word doc
do see not a word do CX or any other
format now you have to upload your word
doc according to smash word style guide
which is a guide they want you to follow
for formatting and I'll share more about
that just a few minutes once you do this
smash words will put your book through
what they call the meat grinder and
they're gonna create different formats
for you so here the format's are going
to create a pub PDF RTF PDB mobi lrf txt
as well as HTML and JavaScript now by
the way as per smashwords term of
service agreement you could not take the
ebooks that they convert for you and
distribute them elsewhere
once formatted smashwords distributes
ebooks to most of the major retailers
such as Barnes & Noble Sony Apple iPad
kobu and borders diesel ebook stores and
to all major smartphone platforms via
app providers so what else do you need
to know about Smashwords well an author
publisher can sell through Smashwords
provided they're legally entitled to
their work all author contracts are
non-exclusive
meaning the author retains all ownership
rights to their work and it's still free
to publish elsewhere should they choose
authors and publishers have complete
control over sampling any pricing and
marketing of their written work it's
free to publish and distribute via
smashwords there aren't any hidden fees
and they earn their revenue by taking
and cut off the net sales now for
royalty they pay approximately 85% for
any purchases via Smashwords comm which
is their retail store for affiliate
marketers they pay approximately 70
point five percent and for most retail
distribution partners they pay
approximately sixty percent of the
suggested list price that you set for
your book and authors can remove
work from smash wards at anytime now
once I learned this information I had to
determine if I wanted smashwords to
distribute for me or if I want to
distribute my ebooks myself so I came up
with the pro and con les and these are
some of my thoughts I'm the pro side
smashwords is well-positioned to handle
future format issues and also future
retailers that might come along there
services cost me nothing on the front
end I only paid based on what they sell
they distribute so I don't have to that
saves me time not only now but also in
the future and they handle everything in
one account including payments so
instead of me having multiple accounts
out there on the con side of things they
do charge me a small percentage to
distribute for me and they are non DRM
meaning that they take some of the
security off of my product but I
understand customers don't like DRM so
that's the only option they give you now
on the pro side for me to do this I
would keep more of the percentage if I
work directly with the retailers and
it's about a 10 percent difference I'm a
con side I'd have to open an account
with each retailer separately now
presently they're about nine I'd most
likely have to pay to get my book
formatted as per each retailer
specifications I'd have to upload my
book and my cover according to specific
requirements of each retailer and also
thinking long-term what other formats or
retailers will come along I'd have to
create more formats more counts down the
road so those are my thoughts there for
me it was an easy decision I chose to
have smash Wars distribute for me it was
this too many on the pro side for them
to do it too many on my conside for me
to do it once I decided that Smashwords
was going to be my distributor the next
thing I had to determine was who's going
to do the formatting am I going to do it
or am I going to hire a professional
now smashwords does have a list of four
matters it's called marks list and if
you contact them via a specific email
from their website they'll you may have
that list to you secondly I felt that a
professor
no could do this a lot faster and more
efficiently that I could thirdly I know
technology and when technologies involve
their issues and I felt that a formatter
a professional formatter could help me
through any technology issues that might
come up and finally you want your book
to be included in their premium catalog
which is the catalog that Smashwords
sends to retailers and your book must be
formatted according to the Smashwords
style guide
now remember me talking about that
earlier once your book is in word doc do
see it has to be formatted according to
the smash word style guide for it to be
part of this premium catalog and 80% of
your sales will come from the retail
distribution network of this catalog
okay for me to do it I would have to
read the smash word style guide which is
85 pages long that's just to read it I'd
also have to implement all the details
involved in formatting and note this
even if I work with a professional I
would still have to upload my ebook
myself Smashwords doesn't want the
professional to do it and I'd still have
to proofread it but that's my
responsible anyway so even if you use a
professional you still need to proofread
it as I shared I did decide to have
Smashwords distribute for me and the
decision I made about formatting was the
higher professional formatter very happy
with that decision the formatter ended
up costing me $65 to do all the
formatting I did upload it myself it
ended up being very easy and we did have
a technology glitch which I anticipated
but with the help of the professional it
was easy easily taken care of in the
beginning of this video I mentioned
learning about Smashwords through Alain
Wilkes and her guide about how to get
your book into brick-and-mortar and
online bookstores when Elaine's book was
published by a major publisher she
assumed like a lot of authors would that
her book would be carried in all the
stores finding that wasn't the case
there was no support from her publisher
Elaine successfully got her book into
stores and created a how-to guide to
help other authors do the same now I
thought you'd also like to know about
her valuable resource guide
it includes contact lists for book
buyers inside our interviews audios
videos 120 page ebook bonuses and a lot
more it's the best guide I've seen I
haven't seen anything else out there
like this to learn more simply click the
red button below and I hope you have a
great day